In the middle of my talk before I stop and take your
questions, you can put your
question in the chat box or
you can communicate with Ariya. So are Ariya could
schedule your question and after for instance in 10 or 20
minutes when I ask for the
question, I can take the your
questions and answer your
questions.
This might be why.
I, uh, what games
Toronto?
You mean in basketball?
Turn Raptors or?
Just one point 1
flying.
Ha ha ha. I see I see I'm not
that fine if I mean basketball,
but yeah, that would. This is a
gift from my friend of mine. I
don't know that this is a.
Uh.
Kind of, I mean the
logo of the Raptors.
OK. So let's
start up. As an old one,
this rather make.
So there's a new version to the
logo. So nice.
Before I start, I just wanted to
pay your attention, I mean.
Bring this up at your attention
that. On weekdays, as you see
the blackboard, Goethe goes
through a maintenance period
from 5:00 AM to 6:00 AM, and
as you saw in the air
assignments manner for the labs
and lectures that I released it
on Monday, you'll see that the
deadline is, uh?
Thursday I site Tuesday night,
midnight. AOE means that
anywhere on the Earth which is
based on the Eastern Time Inter
time zone, it becomes 7:00 AM.
So for those that are living I
mean in the Eastern Time zone.
If you think that you can have
time up until 7:00 AM, that's
fine, but The thing is, be
careful about this maintenance
issue. From 5:00 to 6:00, so I
won't accept a late submission.
I mean, uh.
Issue because of this.
Because you already know that
every day. I mean every week day
there is a maintenance. So be
careful about this. Honestly, if
I were you, I would submit the
sun midnight. I mean anywhere
I'm living and I want to leave
this submission to the last
minutes of the deadline because.
I mean, most of the time there
are some issues when you leave a
submission to the last minute.
And one more thing is that
if something happens in the
last minutes of this
submission because it's
early in the morning in
Eastern Time zone that I'm
living there, so I cannot
solve your problem or your
lab instructors cannot solve your problem at the
time of submission.
So.
Not one day, just midnight. So
for instance, if you are living
in Canada in the Eastern Time
zone, I just assume that the
midnight, I mean 30 Tuesday,
midnight at the deadline.
Although you have up until next
day 7:00 AM because the deadline
is based on.
Finishing the. Tuesday all
around the world.
So there are some places after
the Eastern Time zone that they
are still on Tuesday.
Also, this is one thing and so
let's start. Let's back to
the image from the Galaxy.
Where I said that, uh, that
was the main motivation or
the initial motivation for
the human individual to
propose some problems and the
most immediate problems were
how we can calculate the
distance is how can we
calculate height, length and.
The most simplest solution for
them for those people that live
at the time, was that.
If we are going to measure
something such as the distance.
Instead of yeah, we can pick
another external object and then
measure the quantity or the
entity by multiple units of that
external object. For instance
out, let me enable my laser.
Point area, for instance, if you
assume that they are given this
image and the task is calculated
distance of moon to the sun.
And we are living in that time,
so it's kind of. I mean having
this image, but living in those
ancient times. So the immediate
solution was that they pick on
Earth or any other external
objects as a unit and they tried
to measure the distance based on
the units of Earth. For instance
from Moon to the Earth. They say
that one Earth you have to pass
one Earth 234 and accepting some
I mean errors approximately.
There are five earth.
Earth is between a moon and sun.
Although very simple, uh?
The thing is, this was the
most important part of any
processing systems.
First of all, you have to see
that what type of quantity or
entity you are trying to measure
or you're trying to process.
If that quantity or that an
entity is continuous, you have
to find a way to break
the continuous entity into
discrete units. For instance,
the distance is a type of
continuous entity. So they
break, broke the distance into
units of Earth, so these are
discrete units to measure a
continuous entity. This is the
main step in any processing a
procedure. And that was the
birth of systems that analyze
discrete units of entities. So
do not assume that at the time
they were computer systems,
there were some sophisticated
systems that they analyze this
information. For instance, they
build some machines by wood or
by other I mean materials, but
the main essential part was that
they had to.
This criticize the continuous
entity if the information is
already discrete, that's fine,
so they can go to the next step
of processing. So for now I just
wanted to make sure that you
know what's difference, uh, what
are the continuous entities
available in the world? Or I
mean, in our universe? And what
are the discrete entities? So
please go to this URL.
I put the URL in the chat box.
And when you open the whole
just send me some feedback
that I know that you have
the pole ready.
So I'm waiting for the other, so
we have 70 students in the
class, or I wish you all
participate in this poll.
And. In the bottom of my
screen you can see the online
result Anonymous, so you don't
know who asked what, but yeah,
so the first question is that.
If I want to process the
number of stars, is it
continuous or discrete? How
about temperature? If I want
to process temperature of the
room of the building and etc,
is it continuous or discrete
quantity or entity? How about
electron if I want to analyze
the electrons? Electrons are
continuous or discrete
entities.
So in the bottom is you'll
see that these are the number
of participants 1415.
So you know that the
number of stars. For instance
you have 1*2*3*, so you
don't have, for instance 1
1/2 store, or you cannot
split the star into
intermediate. I mean values. So
the number of stars are
discreet. The temperature,
although we measure temperature
by some metrics such as Celsius,
Fahrenheit. And although we have
an influence, is 1 Celsius to
Celsius and we can have we can
divide the range of the
temperatures when you measure
the temperature. But in reality
temperature is continuous.
In reality, when we want to
measure, the temperature will
break down into some metrics.
For instance, 1, two, 1 1/2
minutes after. But in reality
temperatures continues. I mean,
in reality you cannot.
Find it this. I mean, finding
distance between two elements of
temperature. Electron electron
is an entity for assessment, one
electron to electron etc. So
this is a discrete entities. So
let's see the answers.
So most of you actually
for the correct answer.
And, uh.
Yes, some of you put, I mean continues for all. As I said,
the number of stars are discrete
and also electron.
So 111 thing that may help you
to see what entity is discrete
or continuous, that just assume
that do you have, for instance 1
1/2 electron or 1.25? If there
is no fraction for an entity, it
hints not necessarily. It gives
you the answer, but it helps you
to figure out the entity is
continuous or. Discrete,
so let's move on to the
next question.
How about wait time
sweet?
Nick asks that if
we can represent by
real numbers are you
can say that that's
a continuous. Otherwise this
is discrete. Uh.
Uh, this is I'm a formal
definition of continuous and
discrete entities, but.
I to some extent true yes. If an
entity is represented by real
numbers, you can say that that's
a continuous one.
But you will see that at some
some of the discrete units. If
you want to increase the
precision we used the real
numbers. So the entity in France
temperature. Sorry, for instance
are. I don't have an example
right now, but, uh.
There are some entities that you
represented by real numbers,
but, uh, they are discrete in
essence. Um, let's see
the answer.
So the album, so it seems that
most of this thing got the idea.
So wait time, speed. These are
all continuous entities.
Although when we want to do
this, I mean uh, process them or
analyze them. We represent some
numbers and we break them into
some discrete units.
Uh, wait is a continuous? How
come I will back to your
question later, but let's go to
the next question about these
entities. Sound image pain.
Do you think
that sound is
a discrete or?
Continuous entity. Basically,
from physics you know that the
sound is a type of wave, so you
know that. I mean we have to
figure out the wave, is it
continuous or discrete entity?
How about image or pain?
Be careful about image, although
I mean now this we know that
images are, I mean area of
pixels and pixels or discrete
units of an image. But image in
reality is not. I mean pixels.
We represent image as pixels in
computer systems. But in
reality, image is a
reflection of light on the
surface on a material or
something. So image is a
more continuous. Pain is a
reflection of I mean
electrical pulse in our
neural network so.
You might say that this
continues, but if the
electrical pulse is
measured by electrons, so
then it is a discrete one.
So let's see.
The answers. Again, most of
you I'm incorrect answers, but
oh there. In some instances I
mean in the next question. Oh,
sorry, uh is.
Will back to your questions
for sure. Just let's finish
the these polls.
Oh, let's move on to the next
one. How about wave?
So you know you have 46 votes,
but we have 7 six student in
the class so.
Please all the other
students I participate.
So let's see the answer.
Almost love you. Yes, this is
actually from physical studies.
You know that. So let's move on
to the next one light.
How about lunch?
So as you see here, there are
some entities that they assume
to be. For instance this
discrete and after a while they
figure out that their
constituents or vice versa. So
at first they thought that they
are discrete, but later they
figure out that there are
continuous light or among those
that have two behaviors.
As long as the the we we see
the photonic, I mean behavior of
light. This is discrete, because
photons are discrete units that
123 photos. However, light have
another behavior, which is a
wavelike behavior. So as long as
light is acting like a wave, it
is continuous. So if you want
to, if you do search and you'll
figure out that light is
considered both. Continuous and
discrete. So I just wanted to
show you that.
There are some entities that
there is a controversy with the
the there are continuous or
discrete like the pain as you
said or light right? I mean like
speed or light and the other
thing. Yes time.
Once the there is a huge
philosophy behind the concept of
time and how we measure the time
etc. But The thing is.
So let's let's back to the
slides. The thing is, I just
wanted to show you that for us,
if you want to measure the
entity or quantity.
We have to make it discreet if
they're already discrete, that's
fine, but if they are
continuous, we have to break
them into discrete units.
So. As you see here, there are
some controversy between pain or
image. I can show you about
image. This is the first image
took by Joseph Naps in 1826.
This is a reflection of light
and a piece of metal so we can
go to this link and then find
more about this and you might
say that this is a kind of not
clear image, but in Wikipedia
there is a re stored version of
the image an as you as you can
see there's a 3 on the bag.
There's a house in the right
house in the left. He took the
picture from the window of his
house or this is the window
frame of his house. As you can
see here. So you could say that
I mean. This is a reflection of
light. Light is behaving as he,
a discrete unit as a photon. So
image is a discrete one, but for
us we say that even if you say
that this is a continuous one,
if it is discrete, that's fine.
If it is not, we have to dis
criticize that. And another
instance is this, although we
think that I mean, selfies are
modern phenomena. But the first
selfie was took by Robert
Kennelly Cornelius in 1839. So
again, reflection of light on a
metal surface. And then if you
want to process this, you have
to break it into discrete units
that we call in image processing
pixels. So let's before continue
our topic, so let's back to the.
Questions. So.
I can see the chat box.
Andrew says that pain is
continuous. I know from
experience. For instance, our I.
Actually. I'm not an expert
from. I mean, uh, medical
science, but I don't know how
they measure pain. For instance,
your pain is 1, two or your pain
is high, low or etc. But if you
want to build a system that
analyze the patients pain so you
have to figure out a way to
break the pain into discrete
units. That's the whole idea
that I wanted you to know about
that. So about time again, I'm
not a. I mean scientists in
physics studies, but you might
be true. I mean because plank
through time there's a
philosophy behind definition of
time. But again, for us, if you
want to study something within
the time we have to break time
into intervals, for instance,
day hours, minutes, seconds, an
attachment, you cannot find any
processing system that have a
continuous assumption of time.
Ask and then, uh, what are the
other questions should have
cleaned? No, that was because of
the I mean the device. The
device was not that precise.
OK, so.
Let's move on to the next one.
So after we figure out that we
have to breakdown a continuous
quantities such as distance into
discrete units, we have to find
a way to represent the distance.
For instance, we first started
Moon as long as well at Moon,
there's no distance or zero
distance for zero distance. They
said that there's no need to
represent a zero of any any
quantity, or when there's
nothing of an entity, so we
don't need to represent that.
However, if you move for one
step, you put one.
And then Sue.
And then free. As you can see
here, the immediate solution to
represent the multiple units was
just repeating assemble, so they
involve. I mean they propose a
symbol I, and then they say that
if we need more units, we just
repeat that symbol.
This symbol is called
digit, so the digit
actually comes from here.
So this is the whole process.
A continuous entity must be dis
criticize. Buy some discrete
units and then must be
represented by some symbols and
we call those symbols digits and
this is the whole process or
idea behind number systems, and
this process is called
quantization. If the data or if
the entities already discrete,
so we don't need this part.
However, we need to represent
them. I still have to represent
by some digits or symbols there
are. There are some systems that
work with the continuous
entities. Recall them analog
income. I mean in contrast with
digital systems. This is very
important procedure and which
was actually made years ago
before the invention of
computer systems.
Roma Roman culture. I mean
nation room. They provide this
numbering systems 123 and then
more symbols, but assume that we
only have 1 digit I. By
repeating I we can represent
multiple units of.
Entity discrete units.
This system is called Honor
system and the reason is that
there is only one digit. For
that we call this base one.
But the question is that.
Is this efficient system to
represent a distance or any
other quantities? This is a
question for you if by an Oracle
or a God some I mean some.
A guy that knows the I mean
the true science or true truth
behind the world. Tell you
that the actual distance of
moon to the Earth, moon to the
sun is 150 million kilometers
and the diameter of Earth is
13,000 kilometers.
If you want to represent the
distance based on the units of
Earth, how many?
Digits you have to put to
represent this distance. The
only digit you have is I. So how
many times you have to repeat I
to represent this distance in
another word, how many positions
do you need?
So let me go to.
To poll
So here is the question.
Let me hear.
Oh sorry.
Let me go to the question. Here
is the question.
Oh, you already asked, uh, put
the answers here. Nice so.
150 million
kilometre And then the earth
diameter is 13,000.
So because the unit is Earth,
so you have to simply divide
150 million kilometer by
13,000 kilometer.
So the first is not correct.
This is the. This is the actual
distance in kilometer, but
kilometer is not. Our unit Earth
is our unit.
The 10,000 is the diameter.
So how many earth we have to
pass? So the correct answer
gonna be the 12,000. So we need
12,000 Earth to pass to reach
the sun from the moon.
And each one can be represented
by the symbol I. So we need to
have thousand positions, so
let's see the correct answer.
So.
Most of you actually put the
correct answer. So the next
question is this.
If I give you some papers to
just represent the distance.
And the papers are letter size
or a full size.
And I. Each letter size roughly
can have, for instance, 3000
characters. So how many papers
do you need to represent the
Moon's distance to the sun based
on the unit of Earth, you know
already know that the best you
need 12,000 position to just
right I. And each paper you
have, you can write 3000 I so.
It's very simple. So
basically you just divide
2000 by 3000, so the correct
answer as you most of you
said 89. So you see that this
let me back to these slides.
You see that just to represent
one distance, you need 4 pages
and you have to fill the whole 4
pages by 1.
So the honor system is not that
efficient, but The thing is, it
is working fine at that time and
the reason was that they didn't
need to measure long distance is
the longest distances they could
measure was just, for instance
from one city to another city or
from one home to another home.
So that's why that's simple
Honor system was working fine
for that. But after we build
some technology and we could
measure longer distances, we
need an efficient system to
repres. And the distance is
so onerous, system was not
that good.
All one thing we had some hands
raised up, so let me.
So those that I mean raise their
hand, they can put their name in
the chat box so I can enable the
mic for them to talk.
No questions.
OK, so we can continue thing OK?
So let's this, is the
birth of number systems, meaning
that is it possible to
build systems discrete systems
that can represent the
continuous or discrete
quantities by an efficient
digits or number systems?
And the answer was yes.
Actually, as you see here from
the Roman culture, 8th century,
before Christ, they gradually
try to add more symbols as you
see here. At first there were no
symbol for zero. An after awhile
they introduce a symbol for
zero, and this is the evolution
of the numbering system digits
as right now you're using.
And after a while it divided
into two different formats, but
the same meaning.
In the eastern in the Middle
East, culture at the counter
like this in the Eastern
culture. In the western culture
become this. An after 16th
century, this is the decimal
system that right now we are
using. An interesting thing is
that the. Existing office symbol
for zero. At first they thought
that there is no need to
represent nothing, but after
awhile they thought that it's
good to represent 0 for nothing.
And that's why we have a 0.
But let's I just wanted to
explain more on developing a
number system. So the way they
did so, our thinking of
proposing my own number system,
you can propose your own number
System 2. So in discussion board
I put some topics for you to
explore this more. If you are
interested. So this is my number
system in my number system I
have four symbols or digits.
I can represent zero of Unit
0 and then one the same as
the honor system. One is the
same, but for two. I have a
new symbol for three. I have
a new thing symbol.
So let's see how this
number system works.
If I'm staying at moon, the
distance is 0.
For now, so zero.
And then one minutes to unit 3
unit and then if you go to the
next step after three there is
no symbol in my system to
represent 4, so I'm not allowed
to use for. I have to come up
with an algorithm to represent
the next step after free.
I can say that I cannot
represent this distance by three
but plus one, but is a new
symbol. I don't have that, so I
have to come up with reusing
01234 representing this new
distance. Also, for the next
one, so there's no five in my
system. I have to come up with
an algorithm to represent 5.
And this is my algorithm, so
any numbering system has an
algorithm to represent larger
numbers more than the
available digits.
So I'll start with counting from
00 distance 123. Now if I want
to go to next unit, basically I
introduce a new position to the
left. So I add a new position to
the left. To keep track of
what we've done so far, and then
I start counting again from
zero. So four is 3 so far, plus
knew position plus zero, which
is 4. Five is 0 +
1 and then 6.
And then seven. So seven is
free. Plus new position 1 +
3 which becomes 7.
You could say that just sounded
digits plus the number of
positions minus one because we
need to know the number of new
positions. 48 So I have
to go to the next step so we
cannot use 4 because there is no
symbols before, so we keep track
of what we've done so far by
introducing a new position and
then add 0. So 3 + 3 + 0 plus
the number of new positions to
becomes 8. You can add the new
position to the right instead of
the left, so this is another
number system, so they add news,
for instance 0123 new position
to the right and then 03003 in
this number system becomes 4.
What age is 033?
Which means that 3 + 3 + 0
+ 2 new positions 8.
But in my system, I assume that
I fixed the algorithm. I said
that whenever I need to
represent larger numbers, I add
positions to the left.
So let's continue 910 eleven, so
11 it's done. You see that with
reposition, the largest number
includes the largest digit in
all positions. And now we have
to go further one step further
so we keep track of above the
van so far and then introduce
any position to the left.
So this becomes a twelve 3 + 3
+ 3 + 0 + 3 new.
Free new positions compared to
the first position, so 12.
And as such.
So on here is the algorithm or
formulation for converting my
number system with the decimal
number system. So basically some
of the digits plus some of the
positions minus one.
Here you have two positions,
becomes 2 -- 1 plus the
number of plus the sum of the
digits in all positions.
For instance, here 3332 is
equal to 14 because you sum
the digits plus the number
of positions minus one.
So any numbering system must
come up with an algorithm that
represent larger digits, and we
can figure out how we can
convert it to decimal system to
know what's the value. The
actual value of that number.
So here's the question for you,
uh, if you assume that these are
the numbers in Jose's number
system. So what's the equivalent
decimal number? For instance the
first number? And please remind
that there might be some
representation that not valid in
a system. There might be some
representation that are valid.
So first you have to check the
validity of the representation
and then try to convert it to
the decimal system.
So.
Is the first one correct?
So let's move on
to the. Cool, I believe
I had a question for this one.
Yes, so you can put your answers
here. If you are given this
number in Hossein System.
What is the decimal number for
that? So again, based on my
algorithm, whenever you
introduce a new position, you
have to feel to the Max. So here
you start at the first position
and then you introduce a new
position. But when you introduce
another one you didn't feel to
the largest digit.
So you see that this is not a
valid number in Jose System,
because when you introduce a new
position, you have to fill up
until three in my system.
So the correct answer is.
Yeah, most of you
actually got that.
How about this one?
What's the number in decimal
system for this one?
Based on my algorithm.
So this is a valid
number, because, uh, when you
introduce a new position, you
go to up until the
maximum digits and based on
my algorithm you have to
sum them and then plus
number of position minus one,
so 3. You have a 12
+ 113 plus how many position you
have. 12345 minus one becomes 4,
so the answer cannot be.
UH-17 so let's see the answer.
Yes, most of you actually put
the correct answer.
So that was the most simplest. I
mean Newsome numbering system.
So.
Now my question is this.
You have a new system who says
number system. Now we want to
represent the most distance to
the sun, but this time in
Hossein System. And we want to
see that how many pages we need
right now in another system, we
have to repeat I 12,000 times.
but in Hossein system. How many positions do you need?
I for honestly think you need 4
pages, but here we want to know
how many pages we need. So for
asking this question. So let's
go back to the slides and will
be back to your answers.
So this is the uh, as I said,
these are you answer these and
these are different samples. At
home you can see these other
samples. But here is the math
formulation for figuring out
what's the minimum value in my
system and the maximum one. So
if I'm given N positions.
The minimum value is just
putting the lowest digit in
all the positions.
Uh, which is 0.
Also, there's a bug here and you can figure out what's the
bug, because based on my echo
thing, you have to sum them plus
the number of position minus
one. So the mean is not zero,
but that's about that's a bug in
my system. How about the
maximum? If you are given an
position for the maximum number,
you just Simply put the largest
digit in all positions.
3333 up until the first
position. So then you have to
stop them, plus the number of
positions minus one, which
becomes a three N + N -- 1
becomes four N -- 1.
So end position can represent up
until this number four N -- 1.
So for instance, if you are
given 10 position in Hussain
number system, the Max
number gonna be 39. So the
range of numbers are from
0123 up until 39.
So by 10 positions.
The reverse is this.
If you're given a number and
you're asked how many position
you need for representing that
number, the solution is very
simple. You just assume that
that given number is the maximum
number. So you put it in the
formula. You assume that that
number is the Max.
And then just by simple math,
you bring the minus one to the
left side of the equation and
then four to the left side so it
becomes an minus 1 / 4.
So if you are given the number,
this is the number of position
you need. And now we can see
that we can go back to that
question. Uh, you know that
there are 12,000 units of Earth
from Moon to the sun. Now you
have to represent 12,000 the
number 12,000 in person system.
So let's back to the question.
Now you can answer
this.
Based on that formula, the Max
number is equal to 4 *
N -- 1.
So then by doing some simple
math, you be minus one here to
left side divided by 4, it
becomes 12,000 + 1.
Divided by 4. That's the number
of position you need.
So. 12,000 + 1
becomes 2001 / 4 it becomes a
3000. You need 3000
positions to write the
distance in Jose system.
Each page has 3000
characters. So how many
pages you need?
The correct answer is 1 page.
So in one page you can
represent the distance.
And most of you actually could
the correct answer.
So for those that are put the
incorrect answer. So if you have
questions you can put in the
chat box so that I can explain
it more. So.
Let's back to the slide. Now
you can see that at least
once in system can reduce
this space to just one page
instead of just 4 pages.
It's just one page you put 3333
all the fill out the older pages
by 3000 characters.
And the reason is that
because I introduce new
symbols, I have a two and
three. So because my system
has four symbols, it is 4 * A
powerful Avanti Honor system.
So my question now is that
is it possible to improve
Hossein System? To become more
efficient, to have a more
efficient number system or not.
Uh, in Jose number system
when we do counting from
sincere 0123.
Oh, why we did you divide by 4?
That's back here. Oh, this is
because of the this formula.
So as we said, the Max
number here. The Max number
is equal to four N -- 1. So
if you are given a number.
So come here if you are given a
number and you are now asked how
many position you need, so you
assume that that given number is
the Max. And then you bring the
minus one to the left side
divided by 4.
This is because of this
formulation. So now 12,000 is
the maximum number plus 1 / 4
becomes 3000 for the Moon's
distance to the Earth.
Here and each base can
have 3000 positions. So
in all unit 1 pages.
A true actually I I just put the
rough. I mean here roughly or
kind of approximate numbers. I
just wanted to show you just
that numbering system.
I can be compared to each
other in terms of I mean
saving space or efficiency.
Oh nice. So now
we want to improve Hussein
system. So in Jose System for
instance, when we reach the step
four, we say that we keep what
we've done so far. So we did
three step. Plus zero, I mean
for we added new position and
then zero to represent the next
step. OK. And also when we reach
to the 3 three if we want to go
to the next step so we keep
track of what we've done so far.
Three we did 1 three. We did
another three, so another new
position and eight.
So one round over 4 symbols.
And then a new position here.
Two rounds over 4 Symbols 0123.
And then you position.
Again, we continue up until 11.
We did three rounds over the
whole symbols. We have four
symbols 0123, so we did three
rounds and now we go to the next
round. So new position. So each
complete round introduced a new
position. So my question for me
is that is it possible to?
Make it more efficient.
Anybody
have
you?
Philip says that
maybe bring the
counter back to
zero when adding
a new position.
Uh, you mean the left side? So
if for the right side we do
that, for instance, we went
for 11 to 12. We set the
counter to back to 0 for the
first position, but we keep
track of it done so far. If we
make them zero will lose the
steps we passed.
Oh, you say that? I mean,
instead of having, for
instance, 330, we could have
000, so there's not much
performance here because we
are going to save space, but
it still when you count back
to 0 is still we needed space.
For instance, 11 to 12 you said
that we instead of storing
three, we can store 0. So for
instance 0000000 one, that's OK.
But The thing is still we need
the same amount of spaces.
The solution is this. Instead of
keeping track of the steps, I
did keep track of the rounds
idea. So instead of just saying
that I did 4 units up until
here, we could say that how many
rounds you did.
So let's go back to the
first round of I mean
accounting. So we start from
0123. Now we need a new
position. We introduce a new
position, however, instead of
just keeping track of the free
meaning that we went through
five or four symbols.
We just keep track of the
rounds, so we did one round
overall symbols. We keep
track of what?
But The thing is, this one is
different from the one in the
first position. Because this one
in the left position shows their
round, we went through the
symbols, but this one it shows
one unit. So this one in the
highest signific highest in the
left position shows 4 units, but
this one shows only one units.
Thought. This system is called,
I mean, uh.
It's called the Radix system,
which means that when you
introduce a new position, you
introduce significance to the
position in the Jose system.
There were no significant to the
position, we just add the
positions, but here the
significant matters. So here is
not free. We just keep track of
the rounds one round. So put one
here so it becomes 10.
When
111213. These are the same as
the previous system. And now we
need 1 three. So we need to go
to the next step. Here we did
another round over 4 symbols, so
one becomes 2 because we did two
rounds so far.
But these two again has a higher
significance of Andy. Two in the
first position. These two means
2 units, but these two means two
rounds over the old symbols, or
two rounds over 4 units.
So if we continue 20212223 here
we did another round so third
round so we keep track of the
rounds and again this tree is
different from this week.
This is the three in the small
significant position. Up until
3 three. So my question from
you is this. If I'm going too
far if I want to go from 15 to
16 three three what's going to
be the next number?
Correct but most of Gio. There is no
symbol for four.
We are in a system that only has
a symbol 0123, so we can. We are
not allowed to use a symbol for
four. So as you said, phillip and Tatiana said. And also Andrew
said we have to introduce a new
position like before, but here
we did four round so far so four
rounds over 4 symbols, so it
becomes a 4 * 4 to the power of
1 becomes 4 to the power of 2.
So we introduce a new position.
But this position says that one
rounds over 4 rounds.
So this position has the
significance 4 to the power of
2. Because it shows that one
rounds over 4 rounds or 4 * 4 to
the power of 1.
And this one is how the
significance of four to the
power of 2 compared to the one
in the first position.
So this one shows 16 units, but
this one shows only one unit.
And this system is called
Quaternary system. And we
basically have four Symbols,
0123. And it is called base four
because it has four symbol and
radix 4 because their position. When you add the
position the position has
significance and the
significance are based on the
rounds over the symbols and
because we have four symbols,
the rounds has the significance
of power 4.
And this was the next efficient
system proposed by Hindu Arabic
culture in 7th century.
Remember the first honor
assistant was eight century
before Christ, and this was 7th
century after the class. So you
see the time gap.
How many years took for
them to come up with
this efficient system?
So. Here is the
algorithm. Here's the formal
definition. Number of symbols
are four radix, four or base
for an. Here's the conversion
from the base four to the
decimal system. So the first
position doesn't have any
significance SO4250.
Is equal to 1, so is normal
units. The same as in the unit
hosting system. The second
position when you add them, it
has a significance of four to
the power of 1.
So when you want to convert a
decimal system, you have to
multiply the digits based on the
significant of that position. So
this one. Multiply by 4
to the power of 1, then
some by the other digits.
Here, 20 means that 2 multiplied
by the significant of this
position, which is 4 to the
power of 1 + 0. Significance of
the position sound together 8.
100 means that one.
Multiply by 4 to the power of 2
+ 0. In the second position.
So for the power one and then
0 to the first position for
the power of 0 and then some
altogether 16.
We will see that Issac. I'll answer your question very soon.
The reason is that, uh, they
improve the system based on
their need. So, uh, the system
was enough for them to measure
the short distances, but after
they improve their technology to
travel between I mean law mean
longer distances. They figure
out that we have to come up with
new symbols to represent longer
distance, so they come up with
the base four and then in based
on this system you can simply
improve the system to other
basis and will discuss that.
So. This is the solution and
the question for you, so let's
move on to the pole.
So I hope I have questions.
Yeah, the same number in the
hosted system. Was 17
Now we want to see that
with the same
representation or with the
same 'cause number of
positions, what is the
equal number in base 4?
Remember the algorithm here is
different. Each position has a
significance, so from the first
one this is 4 to the power of 0,
four to the power of 1, four to
the power of 240, power three,
and four to Paris 4.
So you have to multiply each
digit, so let's do that.
So it becomes a.
One multiply by 4 to the power
of 0 plus.
3 * 4 To the power off.
1. So how many three
days we had?
1234 So we have
to do this multiple times.
Four 3 * 14 Power 2.
The power of three.
And then to the power of
four. This is the last digit,
so let's see what's the
number. Google tell us. So
this is the number 1021.
So the second answer is correct.
Oh for sure, let me send you
the link for the pool.
Do you have it right
now? I'm here.
It's in the chat box, so let's
see the answer for you guys. So
correct. Most of you actually
put the correct answer 1021.
And, uh, about the not valid
answer because the only thing
you have to check is that all
the digits must be used the
correct numbers. That's me back
to the question. So we are the
basis for all the digit must be
less than four, so 0123. If you
see a digit which is four or
five, it means that that number
is not valid in base 4.
And again, remember base for the
digits are from 012 up until
three, so one number less than
the base number.
So here's the solution. So one
multiply each digit multiplied
by the significant that
position, and then some
altogether. So this
number is equal to.
30302131 is equal to 65,000.
Something in decimal system.
This number you answered the
question. So 1000 something.
These are the answers to the
other ones. But an interesting
thing here is this.
So this is the maximum number in
Jose System which was 39.
But the same number in base 4
equal to 1 million.
So you see, if you compare these
two systems for same number
system Base 4, first of all,
there are some cases that are
not valid in Jose system. So
basically there was a system or
wasting some combinations.
However, the base for these
combinations are valid numbers.
For instance, this is a valid
number equal to this number in
decimal system. But in our
system this is not a true
number. And also you see that
with the same amount of space,
the hozen system can represent a
small number. I mean within a
small range of numbers, but with
ten position hoses and maximum
number is 39. So you have to
waste 10 position to count from
zero up until 39. But in base
four you're able to count with a
wider range from zero up until
1,000,000 something. So I
mean, it's evident that
if you introduce position
with significance, it is
much more efficient.
So.
Here again the same question if
you are given an position in
base for what would be the
maximum number. You saw that
this is the maximum number. Now
we want to come up with a
formula for that, so the minimum
is 0. Just put the lowest digit
in all positions, but for the
maximum number you have to put
the largest digit in base four
it means 4 -- 1, which is free.
So you put three in all
positions. However, the
difference between this and the
whole system is that each
position has significance, so.
3 multiply by 4 to the power of
three 0 + 3 * 4 to the power of
1 plus an, etc. Up until 3 * 4
to the power of N -- 1. So this
is this song.
If you extract 3 out of the old
terms. So you can come up with
this series. From high school
you can remember that this is a.
This is called a geometric
series. Basically, each number
gonna be added by the next
number, which is based on the
power of two.
4 + 40 power 0 + 45 One up
until four to power minus one.
This series is equal to this.
Equation. So this is a geometric
Siri with the base four which is
equal to this. So 4 -- 1 is 3,
so three by three you can remove
them and so in total the Max
number when you are given an
position is 4 to the power of an
minus one. In Jose System was 4
multiplied by an, but here is 4
to the power of EM.
So as you see, the
efficiency here.
Places, if any, is 10. The Max
number is 4 to the power of 10
-- 1, which is this now?
You can do. I mean I mean
manually do this some so you can
do the multiplication and
submission, but this is the
formulation that helps you much
more easier for you to calculate
the whole the Max number. So in
general if you are given an
position, the Max number is for
the power of N -- 1 and four is
the base for the number system.
On the other way around, if you
are given a number and your ***
too. Figure out how many
position you need. You, as a
like Hussein system. You assume
that that given number is the
Max number, so 4 to the power of
N -- 1 is the maximum number
within positions equal to the
given number. So now you bring
minus one to the right side and
then in order to extract N from
the power you have to apply log.
So log in both equation. It
becomes like 4 to the power of N
to base of four which is equal
to N from mass. Right side
becomes log N + 1.
To the base of four.
So if you are given a random
number and you're asked how many
position you need to represent
that number in base four, this
is a formulation. And now let's
come back to original problem.
Now we want to represent the
most distance to the sun, but
this time in the base four just
to see that how efficient base
for is compared to the honor
system Anhausen system.
So let's back to the whole.
So now we know that the
distance of moon to the sun
is 12,000. Based on the number
of Earth is. And now we have to
represent 12,000, but in base
four. So we assume that 12,000
is equal to the capital N.
Then it becomes log 12,000 + 1
to the base of four.
But The thing is, uh.
So let's go here.
As you see in the Google
Calculator, a log is here, but
like is almost to the base of
10. So if you want to calculate
the lock to 1001 to the base of
four, you have to use a, uh.
Uh, a formula math formula to do
that in order to come up with
the answer with the base 10.
So.
You know from the method, I mean
log A to the base of B is equal
to log A. The base of 10 divided by Log B to the base
of 10. So you can come up with the answer for a different
base B by result of the base 10.
So let's see the answers. We
have only nine participants, but
in the class we have 78
students, so. Please participate
to the pole.
So here is the solution. So
basically you have to do like.
Profound Plus one 2000
was out Max number.
Plus one. But to the base of
four. But we cannot check with
the best 4. Instead we can
calculate in base 10. So like,
enter the base four is equal to
log on to the base 10.
Divided by log 4 to the base 10.
So it's equal to something a
four point, something six point
something. So this is the number
of positions we need. So roughly
we need 7 positions.
So let's back to the pole and see
Do we have the correct answer
for this or not?
Oh, I think there is no
correct answer here.
Uh. Let's see.
Not valid, correct? Correct
answer is not valid actually,
because, uh, if you see the.
A question that's back to the
question or sorry.
Oh yes, this is
the question. So basically,
uh. The correct answer is 7
position, but this is not the
true. So we could say that not
that there's a problem with
this poll. I finish his next
time, but anyways, so let's
back to the slides.
So here is the math so.
We need 12,000 Earth to passed
from one to the sun.
We assume this is the Max, so
log Max plus one divided to the
base four which is.
Today is 10 divided by like
forces based at.
So it becomes a.
As we said six point something
so around five position.
You see that you need less than
a page to write the distance, so
it's much more efficient now.
But The thing is, you might ask
that now you know the number of
positions, what? What is the
number? So you know if you are
given a number in a number
system, for instance, Hussain
number system or in a base phone
number system have you can come
up with the decimal number.
Basically you just multiply it
digit by the significant of that
position and then some together.
However, if you are given a
decimal number and you are asked
to represent it in a base four
or any other basis, so how can
you do that? Will explain that
how from decimal system you can
represent numbers in other
bases, but so far you know that
how we can go there reverse
order if you are given a number
in any any basis, we can go the
decimal system easily.
And now I can take your
questions if you have any.
And then we can continue
with other basis.
Uh.
So for now, let's answer the
question for the course.
And then I'll tell you, yes.
Actually, they report for the
labs are optional.
As long as the markers can run your program. If you need to
explain something to the marker
that you have to do this and
that will run your program, you
have to put in your.
result. When you run your
program, you just for
instance, test your program
that is working. So just
create a snapshot of the
result and then make it
prettier.
Just to prove that you
already run your program in
your computer.
Kevin recently yes any any compiler is allowed. So any
compile C compiler is allowed
for you to use to compile your
program. So any other question
regarding the materials here?
is there any question that I missed in the chat box?
OK, Christopher,
or means
that ordering
2 bits
for instance.
Based on the discrete math,
there's a course in undergrad
studies discrete math, also in
the high school. For instance,
zero or one is 1, one or zero is
1. One or one is 1.
The only case that the result of
all is 0 is that both operand is
0, so zero or zero is.
A zero. Yes, yes, in
C language, the operator is the
vertical bar, yes.
Yes, actually the lab
assignments and the lecture
assignments are already
available on Blackboard, and the
submission is next Thursday. But
remember, if you have any issue
or something you can attend the
lab sections on Wednesday so the
lab instructor will explain all
of your questions there too.
I I'm not sure about that,
but the thing next yes next
Wednesday 7:00 AM.
Or next Tuesday midnight I mean,
midnight anywhere on the Earth.
Because there are some people in
the class that they are from.
For instance other parts of the
world. So when you said Tuesday,
I mean Tuesday, midnight
anywhere you are living.
You're welcome.
When do labs start tomorrow
and next week? This week I
showed the labs gonna start
this week on Wednesday.
No
worries.
Will you be uploading lecture slides to blackboard under
lecture? Yes, yes, actually. As
I said, I'm in the first
week the recording and also the
slides gonna be available on
Blackboard and it's full there
for the second week.
This was gonna be there
right away, but for the
recording we have to wait
until the blackboard
prepared the video and then
we upload it in the
Microsoft Stream. So, but
the deadline for us is The
Tonight. So tonight you are
going to have the video
recordings on this slide.
Yes, yes, actually on top of the
manual for the lectures and
labs. Assignments you can see
the deadline unless agree a
release date, so all the
submissions for the next week.
But remember, I mean for the
lecture assignments you have the
option just to answer 2
questions. Based on your
preference, so there are, I
guess there are 10 questions,
but you have the option to
answer only 12 then.
OK.
You're welcome
and I. I'm
going to be on the office hour,
so right after this lecture, so
if you have any concern or any
other issues, I'm ready there.
For you to take your questions
as well. You too
Justin. Thank you Seham Ben
have a great
day.
You too and.
Thank you Kevin. You
too have a good day.
So let me stop the recording.